And we're gonna look at spinning
up a real small web server, and
look at what go looks like when
interacting with the browser a little bit,
and a super brief look at working with
a template, an HTML template and go.
So kinda this melding of front end
back end for just a few minutes.
So we're talking about routes,
route handles,
go handles routes using
the net/http library.
And it's gonna look something like this,
where you define in your main function,
an entry point for
where your route is going to go.
So if you call http, and
then the built in method HandleFunc,
it's gonna take two arguments.
The path you want to intercept
from the browser, and
then what you wanna do when
that path is recognized.
So, for this example, we're saying that,
hey, when the user navigates to
the homepage, go fire the function home,
which we don't have to find here, and
then execute whatever code
lives in that route handler.
So, right now in my file,
the only thing I'm doing is printing
out the words building a web server.
I'm gonna move up my terminal, and
then get my go run function ready to go.
My intersection 11_server/code/server.go.
If I run it now you see
the words building a web server.
But let's implement a quick
example of a route handler.
So on our input statements,
let's add a library to handle some routes.
So net/http, so parentheses.
And then in main I'm gonna
kill my print line for now.
And have my first handle
function be http.HandleFunc.
Let's just do the home path.
And then it's gonna call a home
function which we'll write next.
So up here I'm gonna say func home,
and then for now let's just print
line, Home.
So see I'm already getting an error,
which is intentional.
If I run this, it's gonna say,
that this type, this home type,
it's a function but it's expecting a bunch
of arguments we're not passing in.
So, let's grab the docs real quick.
I'm gonna say go doc http.HandleFunc.
With this guy up so
you can see what's happening here.
So here's some information
about the HandleFunc.
So, it's gonna take a string,
as its first argument, and
then a route handler,
the handle function home.
And then that function is expecting
two different things, a writer and
a request pointer.
And so we need to modify our home
function to take these two arguments.
And these are gonna be arguments that we
passed to any route handler that we build
throughout this web server or
in the next exercise as well.
So I might start copy
pasting this at some point.
But for now,
let's talk about what's happening.
So the first argument is the writer.
Where are we writing
anything that happens too?
So it's gonna be http.ResponseWriter.
And this is a built-in type that
comes from the http library.
And the second argument is the request.
A variable that represents
the request that was passed through.
So, we're gonna call this http.Request,
which is a pointer and
that also comes from the http library.
So these are built in go types and
required arguments to this
route handle function home.
So if we run this now,
the go doc1, this guy, cool.
So, the next thing we wanna do is that,
instead of just handling this function,
we also wanna spin up a server and
tell our application here
where we want to serve up any assets
that are gonna show up in our browser.
So we're gonna add a couple
lines to our main function.
So after we have our route handlers,
the next thing I wanna do is for
my own benefit, because I always forget,
I'm just gonna say the port
like server is running on port.
Let's work with 8080.
And this is just a note to myself, so
I know what port I'm gonna navigate
to in my browser using localhost.
And then I'm gonna use log.Fatal.
And we'll talk about what
this means in just a second.
But within log.Fatal, I am passing it
http, and then the method listen and
serve, which takes two things,
the port we're looking for in the browser.
And then a second argument which
is optional, so we'll pass in nil.
Print line has a T in it.
Cool.
So our http library is kinda waiting
to intercept our /home route
landing page route.
And at this point, our http.ListenAndServe
is what's actually spinning up our server.
So our servers being spun up here,
we're looking for,
if we ever hit this port in our browser
on localhost, and when that happens,
is there a route handler for
the path we just hit?
And then log.Fatal is going to expect
an error, and if there's an error,
do something with it.
So, assuming this goes great,
log.Fatal won't do anything.
If something bad happens,
log.Fatal will log that error for us.
And what's interesting and
kind of something that took me a minute
to wrap my head around too is that,
the stuff that's in this parenthesis here,
that will get executed, regardless.
So even though we're wrapping this in the
log.Fatal, we're still actually executing
the method ListenAndServe,
we are still spinning at that server.
The log.Fatal is just kind of a back
up wrapper to be like if something goes
wrong, go handle it this particular way.
Cool, so now we run server.go,
you'll see we have our server
is running on port 8080.
I'm gonna navigate over to my browser.
Wow, localhost, 8080.
So see,
nothing's happening on the screen here.
But if I circle back to my browser,
you'll see that I've now print
line home in my actual terminal.
So this home function doesn't
actually get triggered
until our server intercepts this
particular route, the forward slash.
Because we've spun up our server and
it's listening and ready for action.
So if you think about the comparison
between reactor router versus doing
something like this, it takes very little
code to actually spin up a server and
get it rolling using go,
which I find interesting.